Two day tour to Beijing
Hello family and friends,

Just a short note because I am tired. Carol and I just got back from a 35 hour trip to Beijing. We left the ship first thing yesterday morning for a 2 1/2 hour drive to Beijing. We had lunch and then headed for the Great Wall. One note: the weather was beautiful and sunny: blue skies except for a few scattered clouds. The Great Wall was most interesting because it gives some indication of the power of the Chinese emperors. We got extremely tired climbing the stairs on one segment of the Great Wall and you will see why when I send out some pictures.

After the Great Wall we moved on to the Ming Tombs in the hills outside of Beijing. This was an interesting lesson in how Feng Shui is done on a very large scale. We then went at dusk on what is called the 'sacred walk' where dead emperors were carried in a procession. Interesting because of large animal sculptures along the way.

We then had a painfully long drive through Beijing traffic to what is reputed to be the best duck restaurant in Beijing. I have no real knowledge if this claim is true but there were lots of pictures of famous people and politicians eating there. The food was tasty.

On the way to our hotel, the InterContinental, we passed the lit up Olympic sites for the swimming structure and the "Bird's Nest" - looked really cool from the bus, but when Carol and I walked back there at about 11pm, the lights were out. It was great taking a long nighttime walk in Beijing anyway.

Our hotel room was unbelievable, probably the nicest room I have ever had. Unfortunately, we had to meet for breakfast at 6:30am (full on Chinese food buffet with all kinds of strange stuff to eat) and get an early start to Tian'anmen Square: odd but interesting experience - people were in a 3 or 4 hour line to see Mao's tomb. We walked around and gawked. Don't underestimate the patriotic fervor in China: we saw it everywhere. Our guide talked about every person pulling together to help the economy. Single minded and to the point. Very scary, us being economic competitors. Also, I didn't mention before how beautifully splendid Beijing itself is. I am sure that there are poor areas in China, but Beijing was awesome and people just had a happy look about themselves living or working there.

We then went to the Forbidden City. I can not describe how huge this is because we covered such a tiny part of it. The open squares are immense and the imperial buildings, well, are big and imperial. Our guide told me that if a baby was born there and spent each night in a different room, then he would be 30 years old by the time that he slept in all major rooms. Our guide took us to the "Emperor's lovenest" (as he called it) area. The area where he lived with a dozen rooms nearby for his favorite concubines was small compared to the rest of the Forbidden City.

After lunch we went to the Temple of Heaven which was nice after the Forbidden City because the temple area only covered (about) 25 acres and did not numb the mind trying to contemplate the place. Everyone on the tour was happy enough to start the 2 1/2 hour drive back to the ship, after the second long day in a row.

We now have two days at sea before spending two days in Shanghai - looking forward to some down time and working on my current book project.

-Mark
